HARI SREENIVASAN: On Capitol
Hill today, current and
former U.S. government
officials testified
before members of the House and
Senate Intelligence Committees,
painting a clearer portrait of
how Russia meddled in
the 2016 U.S. elections.
A current FBI official told
the Senate Intelligence
Committee how the Russian
government directed
cyber-attacks to wage an
information campaign that
favored then-candidate Trump.
Homeland Security official
Jeanette Manfra also
offered new details on
how Russians attempted
to interfere with
state election systems.
JEANETTE MANFRA, Department
of Homeland Security:
As of right now we have
evidence of 21 states
- - or election-related systems
in 21 states that were targeted.
MAN: But in no case were
actual vote tallies altered
in any way, shape, or form?
JEANETTE MANFRA:
That is correct.
HARI SREENIVASAN: In a separate
and almost simultaneous hearing
before House Intelligence,
former Secretary of Homeland
Security Jeh Johnson described
learning about Russian hacking
into Democratic National
Committee systems months
after the FBI became aware.
JEH JOHNSON, Former U.S.
Secretary of Homeland Security:
It had been some months before I
was learning of this that the
FBI and the DNC had been in
contact with each other about
this.
And I wasn't happy to
be learning about this
several months later.
Very clearly, I wasn't
pleased that we were not
in there helping them
patch this vulnerability.
HARI SREENIVASAN: We get more
on the Senate Intelligence
Committee's Russia investigation
now with one of its key
members, Senator James Lankford,
Republican from Oklahoma.
He joins us now
from Capitol Hill.
Senator, thanks for being here.
This afternoon, we heard
multiple DHS officials
say that they have
more and more evidence
that Russia tried to interfere
in the campaigns or interfere
in the election systems in 21
different states.
And while they stress that
none of the votes were flipped
in any of these states, they
did say that some of these
intrusions kind of made it
past of the security systems.
So, my question is, why
not release the information
on which states or which
localities were compromised?
SEN.
JAMES LANKFORD (R), Oklahoma: So
the FBI has a very clear policy.
They don't expose victims.
And they consider these
states to be victims of an
intrusion on the outside.
If the states want to be able
to say that or if they want
to be able to release that,
obviously, they're
welcome to do.
But for a location that
was actually attacked by
an outside force they're
not going to release
it.
Some of those will
continue to come out.
Some of those states will say,
yes, we're one of the states,
and the list will eventually
come out.
HARI SREENIVASAN: You agree it's
important, regardless whether if
you're Democrat or Republican,
to make sure that these
things are fixed, especially
between now and 2018?
SEN.
JAMES LANKFORD:
Absolutely, it is.
There were really three
simultaneous hearings today, one
in the House, two in the Senate,
both of them in the
Senate dealing with state
election systems and
also dealing with state
penetrations from outside actors
trying to be able to reach
into multiple state agencies.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Since the
investigation into Russian
meddling began, has anything
changed your opinion
in how serious this is?
SEN.
JAMES LANKFORD: Oh, no, it
hasn't changed my opinion.
I serve on the Intel
Committee and I have
been very aware of it.
I think more Americans are
aware of what is going on, as
we try to engage our federal
government to be able to
step up to the level of
risk that we really face.
A lot of states have become
more aware of it, and their
state CIOs, chief information
officers, and other agencies
are now stepping up to say this
is a real threat and we need
to be able to
treat it seriously.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Since this
began, we have reports just in
the last couple of days from
The New York Times now that says
the CIA director, Mike Pompeo,
continued to brief Michael Flynn
even after he was given
information that Michael
Flynn might be compromised.
Was this -- was this
handled appropriately?
SEN.
JAMES LANKFORD: It was
handled appropriately.
I was very surprised at
The New York Times story.
They get some things right.
For this one, it seemed
much ado about nothing.
The fact that in the earliest
days Michael Flynn was there
and that there were some people
from the previous administration
that didn't like Michael
Flynn or thought that he had
been challenged before, this
administration, the current
administration, was still trying
to determine that, and to be
able to put that off on Mike
Pompeo, who had also just been
hired days before, literally ,
they're confronting Mike Pompeo,
saying he could have -- should
have confronted a White
House official days into
his new post, I think,
is an unfair reevaluation
or rewrite of history.
HARI SREENIVASAN: This also
seems to -- from an outsider's
perspective, even when it comes
to intelligence-gathering,
there's a layer of politics
on it and a layer of distrust,
because you would think that
by the time the information
filters up to the head of the
CIA, that whoever is coming up
with that information is putting
country first and not party.
SEN.
JAMES LANKFORD: Correct.
And you would also assume that
there is a way to be able to
interpret that information.
And at times, you see an
accusation that may be released
out, for instance, with Michael
Flynn, to say he might have
been compromised, he might have
been vulnerable to blackmail.
When you actually see that
information, I think a lot of
Americans will look at it and
go, what in the world
are they talking about?
One analyst will look at one
thing and see it one way.
Another analyst will
look at it and see it an
entirely different way.
There's more open to
interpretation here than
what the Americans are
being led to believe
in this by that story.
I would just tell people
to take a deep breath.
Let's not try to revise history
of what was actually going on
in literally the very first
week of a new administration
as they were getting organized.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Is there
any concern that Michael Flynn
had access to information that
he shouldn't have had?
SEN.
JAMES LANKFORD: No, I haven't
seen that concern on that.
He is the national security
adviser working next to the
president, so in his time that
he was the national
security adviser, he is
working in the White House.
He should have access
to that information.
Obviously, once the president
fired him, he should have
access to no information at all
at that point.
HARI SREENIVASAN: You have
also had the opportunity
to listen to Mike Rogers
in -- I'm sorry -- you
have had the head of the
DNI and the head of the CIA
in closed-door sessions.
Has anything that they have told
you, without having to reveal
it here, given you any greater
sense of comfort or a
greater sense of alarm?
SEN.
JAMES LANKFORD:
No, they haven't.
Obviously, when we walk through
classified information and
sources and methods and how
things are determined, we get
a chance to see the raw data.
Very often, what comes out in
open hearings is an impression
that has been made, and then
you look back at the data and
you have to determine whether
I would agree or disagree
with that same impression.
We are walking through
all the investigations
in a very bipartisan way.
The Senate Intelligence
Committee is a very bipartisan
committee where we try to look
at all the information,
have real conversations.
You don't have Republicans and
Democrats behind closed doors.
We have people passionate
about national security
behind closed doors.
And I think that's the
way that it should be.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The White
House is supposed to announce,
possibly as early as this week,
to settle this question
on whether or not there
exists recordings of
conversations between
the president and former
Director James Comey.
As a member of the Senate
Intelligence Committee,
do you have any reason
to believe that there
are or that there are not tapes?
SEN.
JAMES LANKFORD: We don't know.
We have, obviously, made
the request that we would
receive those recordings.
It would clear up a
lot of the issues.
Obviously, the former
FBI director, Jim Comey,
said he released out
his memos that were of
an FBI document that after he
left employment he released them
out anyway to try to proactively
cut that off.
I wish he wouldn't
have done that.
But if we have recordings, we
could get the recordings and
get all the information out
there.
But at this point, if there
is a recording, based on a
tweet from the president saying
he -- that Jim Comey better
hope that there aren't, I
would, quite frankly, tell you,
if the White House
has recordings, they
should release them.
That settles the issue.
HARI SREENIVASAN: If
there are recordings, is
that concerning to you?
SEN.
JAMES LANKFORD: Well, it would
only be a question for me to
figure out why they're trying to
record what's happening
in the White House and
what is happening in
private conversations.
If there are, we need to
get the information out.
Let's resolve the issues and
try to determine why those were
happening, what was the source
of those, and then that will
help settle a lot of issues.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
Senator James Lankford from the
Senate Intelligence Committee
and from Oklahoma,
thanks so much.
SEN.
JAMES LANKFORD: You bet.
Thank you.